- [Instructor] Let us do a quick demo
to use the protoc compiler.
The first step for this demo
will be to download a list of utilities
to run the protoc compiler.
Please note that I am working
with the Windows Operating System.
If you're working with Linux or Mac,
then you need to download these utilities
that are compatible with your OS.
The first utility to download
is the actual protoc compiler package.
There's a link that has been provided on the screen
which will drive you
to the GitHub project of protocol buffers.
Let's click and see where we can download the package from.
So if you scroll right down,
we see that we have the protoc compiler package
for each of the operating systems.
I am going to download the one for Windows OS.
I have already downloaded this package, unzipped it,
and I have placed it on my E drive
in a folder called protoc.
This is the package that we want.
The next step will be to download
the protoc-gen-grpc-java plugin.
Why do we need this?
The protoc compiler package that we downloaded just now
is going to help you auto-generate your objects
corresponding to the message types
that you defined in your service file.
However, if you also want to auto-generate the service class
then you need to use an additional plugin
that is called protoc-gen-grpc-java plugin.
There's a link that's provided on the screen
that will drive you to the Maven Repository
where you can download the plugin from.
So if you go there, you can click on the latest version
and view the files.
There are executables that are available here for every OS.
You can download the one that suits you.
I have already done that
and it's available in the same folder,
that's protoc under my E drive.
The last step of the setup is the protoc compiler setting
in the PATH environment variable.
We need to set the path of the protoc executable
in the environment variable
so that we can access it from any folder on our machine.
Let us do that.
Let's go to E://protoc
and let's go to the bin folder.
That's where you should be able to see
the protoc executable.
I'm going to copy the spot
and then go to my Windows environment variables.
Let's click on edit system environment variables,
click on environment variables,
and then under system variables down there,
you can click on path,
edit this, and then you can add an entry
for the protoc compiler executable.
Click OK and then exit that set up.
That's all.
So now we are ready with the basic setup
so that we can start using the protoc compiler.
We look at the next steps in the next video.